APPROVED MINUTES Special Board Meeting (Thursday, February 23, 2023)
Generated by Karin Erich on Friday, February 24, 2023
Members present
Andrea Yamasaki, Kris Erickson, Ana Page, Rick Ledesma, John Ortega, Madison Miner
1. OPENING ITEMS
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order: 5:35 pm
Procedural: B. Establish Quorum: 6 members present for a quorum: Andrea Yamasaki, Kris Erickson, Ana Page, Rick Ledesma, John
Ortega, Madison Miner
Procedural: C. Pledge of Allegiance
Procedural: D. Public Comment on Closed Session Items. Guidelines: Members of the audience may address the Board of Education
on the Closed Session agenda item. Speaking time is limited to three (3) minutes per speaker with a maximum of twenty (20) minutes
per topic. Persons wishing to speak should submit a Public Comment card prior to the meeting.
Trustee Page and Erickson had questions about agenda item 2A. Legal counsel provides some clarification. There was a discussion about
the availability of interpreters.
Rosa Otero: find somebody with no conflicts of interest. In support of Abercrombie; Michelle Bohen, OUSD parent: going forward, no
additional money to acting or interim superintendent. Money needs to go to the kids; Gregory Pleasants, OUSD parent: board majority
has no plan. The board's actions affect the quality of education and brought hatred to the district. The board majority is in it for the
wrong reasons; Jon Sanks, OUSD parent: lack of transparency caused chaos. We need to learn from mistakes and use common sense;
Michelle Weisenberg: this board majority caused chaos and has no plan. What is the curriculum audit? Lee Tousignant, OUSD parent:
supports all board members. Transparency is most important. We need to come together; Soren Williams, OUSD parent: lack of
transparency caused chaos. There is no plan; Alex Brewsaugh, OUSD parent: Lack of transparency caused chaos; Betty Chu: Hope the
new superintendent will work will the whole board, all in the best interest of the students, teachers, and community; Scott Resnick, OUSD
parent: The agenda is vague. Who are you appointing? Lack of transparency. Darshan Smaaladen, OUSD parent: Stop the chaos and
surprise tactics. Follow the line of succession; Erinne Mejia: The lack of transparency wasted taxpayers' money, focus on search and end
the chaos. Protect the right of every child to public education; Kathy Moffat: the chaos continues. The community deserves to know what
is happening. The board majority should get training; Bonnie Robinson: OUSD has been known for excellence until January 5th. The
board needs to act with transparency in the search for the new superintendent; Sapna Chopra, OUSD parent: Actions of the board are
deeply disturbing. Asks to conduct a proper and legal search; Jolin Lang, OUSD parent: chaos is caused by the process. Do what is right.
Invite the community into the process.
Procedural: E. Adjourn to Closed Session: 6:40 pm
2. CLOSED SESSION
Action: A. Public Employee Appointment - Government Code 54957 (B)(1)
3. OPENING SESSION IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING CLOSED SESSION
Procedural: A. Report on Closed Session Action
The board took no action and will consider the item during the next closed session when the entire board is present.
4. PUBLIC COMMENT ON OPEN SESSION ITEM
Procedural: A. Guidelines: Members of the audience may address the Board of Education on agenda items during consideration of that
item. Speaking time is limited to three (3) minutes per speaker with a maximum of twenty (20) minutes per topic. Persons wishing to
speak should submit a Public Comment card prior to the meeting.
Lee Tomsienant, OUSD parent: the data is useful information but take into consideration that if you look at numbers, there are kids
behind it; Sonia Anderson, OUSD parent: daughter doesn't feel safe in the classroom and is no longer a straight-A student; Kami Kenyon:
take into account the many variables that make OUSD schools unique and don't just look at the numbers, don't jump to conclusions;
James Cox: put testing and test scores in the appropriate context. By themselves, scores do not provide anything about the quality of the
program. There are too many variables; Tanya: fix issues and give students the proper education they deserve; Kelly on behalf of Britt:
bad test scores for over ten years. OUSD students deserve better. Provide quality education; Rosa: teachers don't want to talk about low
test scores. How can other districts score better while we're in the same pandemic; Retired Senator Gloria Romero: put kids first and all
will succeed. These are not test scores, they are children's lives. There is a race gap. Every child can learn; Cecilia Iglesias: no
representation of the Latino parents. Look at the data and give the Latino community the support they need; Gregory Pleasants, OUSD
parent: look at test scores in context. don't misuse the data; Jon Sanks, OUSD parent: who are we comparing to? Where is Anaheim
district? Metrics are important but not the only story; Michelle Weisenberg: don't compare to OCCA. Demographics are not the same. Our
district is more than test scores; Rebecca Nelson: don't cherry pick data, look at the whole picture; Alex Brewsaugh, OUSD parents:
statistical analysis is important, misuse is dangerous. Numbers can be misrepresented. Don't ignore significant variables; Lorie Kaylor:
support for academic audit, test scores are too low, we want our kids to succeed; Betty Chu: OUSD has underperformed, all children in
Orange Unified deserve better academic preparation to enable them to compete and succeed in the future;
Darshan Smaaladen, OUSD parent: scores do not reflect how students learn; Karen Tadros, OUSD parent: we are not comparing to the
right districts. Students are more than test scores. Look at growth and activities. these are better measurements than one test; Scott
Resnick, OUSD parent: test scores should not be used as a metric. There is so much data missing. Did data comparison replace the audit?
Kathy Moffat: all areas improved on the dashboard of CDE. The board majority is not focussed on students; Lynn Marie Frediani: the
board majority is tearing OUSD apart. The test scores show nothing.

5. INFORMATION/DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEM
Information: A. A District Presentation will be provided regarding Academic Data Comparisons between school districts
Executive Director K-12 Curriculum & Instruction Lisa Green presented the item. Some questions were answered.
6. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 9:49 am

