APPROVED MINUTES Special Board Meeting Closed Session (Thursday, January 5, 2023)
Generated by Karin Erich on Monday, January 9, 2023
Members present
Andrea Yamasaki, Kris Erickson, Ana Page, Rick Ledesma, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey, Madison Miner
1. OPENING ITEMS
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order at 4:02 p.m.
Procedural: B. Establish Quorum: all board members present
Seven members present for a quorum: Andrea Yamasaki, Kris Erickson, Ana Page, Rick Ledesma, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey, Madison Miner
Procedural: C. Pledge of Allegiance
Procedural: D. Public Comment on Closed Session Items
Trustee Erickson asked what the difference is between a special meeting and an emergency meeting, if anybody had been in contact with Dr. Hansen and Mrs. Corella who
are out of the country and if board president Ledesma was aware that it's winter break. She also commented that Mr. Ledesma didn't follow up on her request to send any
information on the proposed candidates. She mentioned before that the District has a no-surprise policy, and that this was the ultimate surprise since fellow board members
did not receive any information.
Mrs. Yamasaki made a motion to postpone the meeting, and Mrs. Erickson seconded. There was a discussion. Mrs. Yamasaki asked legal counsel if the meeting was
rightfully scheduled and why the meeting was scheduled. Mr. Ledesma felt compelled to call the meeting. Mrs. Yamasaki also asked if it was legal for the board to take
adverse employment action without notice to Dr. Hansen and Mrs. Corella. Legal counsel confirmed there is a provision of the Brown act that is a narrow circumstance
where an employee is entitled to 24-hour personal notice and this isn't one of them. Trustee Erickson clarified that a 24-hour personal notice is required if an actual
complaint was lodged against the superintendent or the assistant superintendent that would require a hearing conducted in closed session on complaints or charges and
that was not the case. Legal Counsel confirmed that this was a legal meeting and there was no Brown Act violation with regard to the 24-hour notice and lack of notice to
Dr. Hansen and Mrs. Corella.
Motion to postpone the meeting.
Motion by Andrea Yamasaki, second by Kris Erickson.
Final Resolution: Motion Fails
Yea: Andrea Yamasaki, Kris Erickson, Ana Page,
Nay: Rick Ledesma, Madison Miner, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey
Public Comments:
Opposes the termination of the contract of Superintendent Dr. Hansen and Assistant Superintendent of Educational Services Mrs. Corella:
Linda Elliot, OUSD grandparent; Lee Tousignant, OUSD parent; Chrystal Tousignant, OUSD parent; Jeanne Matson, not an OUSD parent; Cynthia Hicks, OUSD parent; Linda
Horist, OUSD parent; Jessica Nettles, OUSD parent; Vicki Mull, OUSD parent; Tara Barrow Randall, not an OUSD parent; Ronna Weltman, not an OUSD parent; Marie
Luebbers, not an OUSD parent; Sara Pelly, not an OUSD parent; Kim VanDerHoek, OUSD parent; David Stevens, not an OUSD parent; Stacey Strong Ortega, not an OUSD
parent; Wendi Forrest, OUSD parent; Jim Nelson, OUSD parent; Amber Badalian, not an OUSD parent; Kurt Davis, not an OUSD parent; Lynn-Marie Frediani, not an OUSD
parent; Amy Case, not an OUSD parent; Mary Thomas-Vallens, not an OUSD parent; Soren Williams, OUSD parent; Long Duong, OUSD parent; Emily Lawrence, OUSD
parent; Sarshan Smaaladen, OUSD parent; Kelly Todak, OUSD parent; Lisa Shipman, not an OUSD parent; Gregory Pleasants, OUSD parent; Theresa Nguyen, OUSD
parent; Ranya, OUSD parent; Whitney Amsbary, not an OUSD parent; Eugene Fields, OUSD parent; Nicol Jones, OUSD parent; Jessica Prechtl, OUSD parent; Michelle
Weisenberg, not an OUSD parent; Lynne Riddle, not an OUSD parent; Michelle Canto, not an OUSD parent; Karin Barone, OUSD parent; Greg Goodlander, not an OUSD
parent; Kris Erickson, not an OUSD parent; Jennifer Reeves, not an OUSD parent; Jon Sanks, OUSD parent; Alex Brewsaugh, OUSD parent; Hasti Sadeghi/Karina
Kewalramani, OUSD students; Ruby Hewitt, OUSD student; Nancy Clark, not an OUSD parent; Sara Hoffmann, OUSD parent; Kathy Moffat, not an OUSD parent; Chad
Zimmerman; OUSD parent; Jen Berkson, OUSD parent; Kennedy Schaal, OUSD parent; Rebecca Gomez, not an OUSD parent; Carrie Lundell, OUSD parent; Florice
Hoffman, OUSD parent; Heather Coulter, OUSD parent; Katherine Topor, not an OUSD parent; Bonnie Robinson, not an OUSD parent.
Supports the termination of the contract of Superintendent Dr. Hansen and Assistant Superintendent of Educational Services Mrs. Corella:
Rosa Otero
Procedural: E. Adjourn to Closed Session at 7:10 pm
2. CLOSED SESSION
Information, Procedural: A. Public Employee Performance Evaluation
Action: B. Public Employee Employment/Discipline/Dismissal/Release
Action: C. Public Employee Appointment
3. OPENING SESSION IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING CLOSED SESSION
Procedural: A. Report on Closed Session Action: 8:41 pm
Board President Ledesma reported out on Closed Session Action items:
Item 1: The Board of Education took action to immediately provide Superintendent Gunn Marie Hansen with 30 calendar days written notice of termination of contract (no
cause) in accordance with the Superintendent’s agreement for employment and placed the Superintendent on paid administrative leave effective today, January 5, 2023.
Nay: Andrea Yamasaki, Kris Erickson, Ana Page,
Yea: Rick Ledesma, Madison Miner, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey
Item 2: In a separate action, the Board provided the Assistant Superintendent of Educational Services, Cathleen Corella, with written notice that she was
immediately placed on administrative leave until further notice pending the district conducting a curriculum and educational audit.
Nay: Andrea Yamasaki, Kris Erickson, Ana Page,
Yea: Rick Ledesma, Madison Miner, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey
Item 3: In other actions, the Board contracted the employment of Edward Velasquez as the District’s Interim Superintendent effective Monday, January 9, 2023.
Nay: Andrea Yamasaki, Ana Page,
Yea: Rick Ledesma, Madison Miner, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey
Abstain: Kris Erickson
Item 4: The Board appointed Craig Abercrombie as the District’s Acting Assistant Superintendent of Educational Services effective Monday, January 9, 2023.
Nay: Andrea Yamasaki, Ana Page,
Yea: Rick Ledesma, Madison Miner, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey
Abstain: Kris Erickson
4. ADJOURNMENT
Procedural: A. Meeting adjourned at: 8:45 pm

