Approved Minutes Special Board Meeting - Work Study Session (Monday, December 4, 2023)
Generated by Karin Erich on Tuesday, December 5, 2023
Members Present
Kris Erickson, Madison Miner, Ana Page, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey, Andrea Yamasaki
1. CALL TO ORDER - REGULAR SESSION
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order at 6:02 PM
Procedural: B. Establish Quorum
Five members present for a quorum: Kris Erickson, Ana Page, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey, Andrea Yamasaki
Procedural: C. Pledge of Allegiance
Action: D. Adoption of Agenda
Approval
Motion by Angie Rumsey, Second by Kris Erickson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrea Yamasaki, Kris Erickson, Ana Page, John Ortega, Angie Rumsey
2. PUBLIC COMMENT
Procedural: A. Guidelines: As required by the Brown Act, Government Code Section 54956, at special meetings/study sessions,
members of the audience may only address the Board of Education on items that are agendized. Public comments will be
received on the facilities update study session.
Michelle: Spoke on the asset management plan and asked to share unused space with OCCA. OCCA receives less public funds
because they are a charter. OCCA has double the number of students and half the space. She doesn't want to push students out
but wants to work together. Anticipates 340 students for the high school total and that's the maximum.
Beth Cipres: OUSD employee: Spoke on the asset management plan. In determining surplus property, there should be minimal
impact on the community or educational programs. Should not come at the expense of those who are the most vulnerable
students. Look at empty and available spaces first. There are no empty spaces or classrooms at Esplanade.
Lorrie Kaylor: The board should look at how community taxes were insufficiently used by the previous superintendent on the
Science Centers. It could have been used to enhance the high schools. OCCA wants to share the facility, and not take over. Make
fiscally responsible decisions for the families.
Dawn D: Is in support of OCCA. Esplanade has extra space and it will bring more money to the district.
Jolin, OUSD parent: OCCA wants empty classrooms where there is only 1, but she hears 8. 340 students don't fit in 8
classrooms. They don't mind the mod severe students but do they know how many teachers they need? This is math. It does not
make sense. Find other districts that have more space, if you want to open now.
Linda Cone: How are all classrooms filled when you only have half the number of students? Comments the board majority for
fulfilling their number 1 priority: serving the community and being fiscally responsible. Keep doing the great work despite
resistance from the Union. No on recall.
Florita Sheldon: Evaluation of the use of the facilities: consider the backgrounds of those that will be appointed to the committee.
An alarming number of those are within the teachers union. Balanced representation is needed. Include those from within the
community.
Frances Marshall: Supports speaker Michelle Stevens. Here to support and protect our children. Work together with the
community. In LA there was a charter school, very successful and sought after. Encourage to work with the Charter School. The
space belongs to the community. Work together with the community.
Rosa Otero: Mentioned that she is concerned about her property taxes. There is a high population of elderly and adding taxes to
an already struggling community is not okay. Consider selling property.
3. WORK/STUDY SESSION
Discussion, Information: A. Facilities Presentation
Deputy Superintendent and Chief Business Officer Mr. Rivera presented the item.
Mr. Dougl Yeoman, legal counsel, presented on legal issues involving the use of energy conservation contracts.
Mr. Gabriel Peredo, Senior Director of Los Angeles Operations from RHA, and Mr. Rivera presented on potential Energy
Management Projects.
The Education Funding Services Team of the DLR Group presented on the Facility State Matching Fund Program and District
Funding Eligibility.
Trustee Miner arrived at 8:00 PM, the start of the presentation on the Development of a District Asset Management Plan.
Mr. Doug Yeoman, legal counsel, and Mr. Dave Rivera presented on the development of a District Asset Management Plan.

Questions were answered for all presentations.
4. ADJOURNMENT
Procedural: A. Meeting Adjourned by Call of the Chair at 9:16 PM

