3/25/2020

BoardDocs® Pro

Special Board Meeting Minutes- Work Study Session (Tuesday, March 3, 2020)
Generated by Nancy M Clark on Wednesday, March 4, 2020

1. OPENING ITEMS
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
The meeting was called to order at 5:15 pm by President John Ortega
Rick Ledesma arrived later at 6:30 pm
Procedural: B. Establish Quorum
Quorum met with six members present and one absent.
Action: C. Adoption of Agenda
Agenda adopted
Motion by Kathy Moffat, second by Alexia Deligianni. Motion carries 6-0-1.
2. PUBLIC COMMENT ON AGENDA ITEMS
Procedural: A. As required by the Brown Act, Government Code Section 54956, at special meetings/study sessions, members of the
audience may only address the Board of Education on items which are agendized.
None
3. WORK/STUDY SESSION - FACILITIES MASTER PLAN
Information: A. Facilities Master Plan Presentation
Dr. Hansen introduced the panel from the firm LPA and commented that OUSD staff have been pleased with the work so far and the
purpose of this meeting is to inform the Board of the progress for them to have an opportunity to ask questions if they choose. LPA
Team Members: Jim Kissel, Director K-12; Samuel Lim, Managing Director; and Lindsay Hayward; Associate.
The LPA Team/Staff began the program with an explanation of "why a master plan?"
1. Facility Master Plan is first step in facilities improvement process
2. Recommended every 3-5 years by California Department of Education
3. Required to qualify for state new Prop 13 SFP funding
4. Enables data driven facilities decision-making
5. Offers a new set of eyes on facilities
6. Sustainable focus facilitates good stewardship
7. Aligns facilities with educational program vision and LCAP goals
September Board Engagement Activity Themes
Realistic
Financially achievable
Surplus property
Sense of confidence in decision-making
Stakeholders Engagement - the Numbers
14 participants - Executive Steering Committee Meetings
3 Facilities Master Plan Committee Meeting (50 + participants)
Educational Visioning Meeting (Curriculum Council) 17+ participants
11 Focus Group Meetings 60+ participants
6 Online Surveys -1,549 participants comprised of principals, teachers, school site admin., custodial staff, students and parents
Facilities Master Plan Components
Educational Vision
Demographics Review
Facilities Assessment
Financial Analysis
Stakeholder Collaboration-Cost Estimating + Prioritization - Final Campus Plan Recommendations
There was open dialogue regarding the Educational Vision and topics included:
Shared Facilities (Build a central facility that all schools can use)
Expanded Learning Opportunities
Accessibility and Safety
Updated Classroom Environments that provide
Welcoming Schools/Curb appeal
Outdoor Spaces
Outdoor learning opportunities
Athletic field and playground updates
Whole Child Support
https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/orangeusd/Board.nsf/Private?open&login

1/2

3/25/2020

BoardDocs® Pro

Student Support Services
Acoustically private space for counseling and student services
Multi-Purpose Rooms at all sites
STEAM and CTE
Dedicated STEAM, Art and VAPA spaces
Libraries
Flexible libraries that provide access to books and technology
LPA then gave some specific examples of what the spaces within the school site could look like as well as exterior space.
Demographics Review
Decline of birth rates
Financial recap document 2019-2020
The Problem We are Facing
Old sites with aging infrastructure
Have not invested a lot of $$ into facilities improvements
Some sites are not educational appropriate for NextGen learning
Projected decline in enrollment
Surrounding Districts are rebuilding facilities and innovating programs
Competing with other Districts and Private Schools for student retention
Ready to draw Draft Master Plans for each site
Opportunities
Potential Magnet Schools (one per feeder)
The Problem We Are Facing
Being good steward of $ - can't build everything everywhere
Pools at the high schools are old and failing
Currently, there are no Performing Arts Centers at the High Schools
Opportunities
Shared Use - there is a culture of sharing in OUSD
Aquatics
Play fields
Athletics
Performing Arts
Peralta Site Study
Conclusion | Discussion
Should we include K-8 Schools in the Facilities Master Plan?
Should we include a Joint-Use Site in the Facilities Master Plan?
4. OTHER BUSINESS
Status of GoCAT
Joint Use and funding sources
Explore working with the city of Orange
5. ADJOURNMENT
Procedural: A. Meeting adjourned at: 7:57 pm

https://go.boarddocs.com/ca/orangeusd/Board.nsf/Private?open&login

2/2

